# WSL2 Proxy Guide For Non-mirrored Network

__NOTE__: This guide is only for non-mirrored network. For mirrored network, see [Microsoft Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/networking#mirrored-mode-networking)

With the default WSL2 distro setting, WSL2 will have a net interface
within private network (, and you can check it with `ifconfig`). 
And the Windows Host also has a virtual net interface called `vEthernet (WSL)`,
which allows WSL2 to comunicate with it and other networks (, see the routetrack
with `tracepath` or `traceroute`).

This private net can be used as a LAN proxy tunnel. What we do is just to get the 
Win host ip and set LAN proxy for WSL2.

__Table of Contents__

+ [BEFORE YOU START](#before-you-start)
+ [WSL SHELL ENV SETTINGS](#wsl-shell-env-settings)
+ [WINDOWS FIREWALL RULES](#windows-firewall-rules)
+ [UBUNTU SUDO ENV INHERITENCE](#ubuntu-sudo-env-inheritence)

## BEFORE YOU START

This guide assumes you are using `clash` as the proxy application. The example
commands below use its default local port `7890`; if your proxy listens on a
different port, replace `7890` accordingly.

Turn on the `Allow LAN` of `clash`, the proxy will go through our WSL LAN.

## WSL SHELL ENV SETTINGS

The Windows host DNS config is in `/etc/resolv.conf` (, a symlink to `/mnt/wsl/resolv.conf`), 
which is auto-generated by WSL, so we can get the host ip with shell
script, and set the __LAN__ proxy.

__NOTE:__ If you close the `generateResolvConf` in `/etc/wsl.conf`, you __should turn it on__,
or you cannot get the dynamically assigned host ip in the WSL private network.

Add this into the env config files like `.bashrc`

```bash
export hostip=$(cat /etc/resolv.conf |grep -oP '(?<=nameserver\ ).*')
export https_proxy="http://${hostip}:7890"
export http_proxy="http://${hostip}:7890"
```

Ref: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/153124468

or you can directly use the Win host's domain name: `"$(hostname).mshome.net"`
```bash
export host_domain="$(hostname).mshome.net"
export https_proxy="http://${host_domain}:7890"
export http_proxy="http://${host_domain}:7890"
```

## WINDOWS FIREWALL RULES
Update windows firewall and reset sockets __using PowerShell__.

```pwsh
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "WSL" -Direction Inbound  -InterfaceAlias "vEthernet (WSL)"  -Action Allow
netsh winsock reset
```

__NOTE:__ the firewall inbound-rules for `clash-win64` should 
also be allowed (especially the __public profile__)
to let inbound traffic goes to `clash-win64`!

注：windows防火墙的入站规则中，`clash-win64` 也需要设置为允许 （特别是公用网络）

Ref: https://halc.top/p/6088c65c



## UBUNTU SUDO ENV INHERITENCE
By using `sudo visudo`, add those following lines into the config files,
```bash
Defaults  env_keep += "http_proxy"
Defaults  env_keep += "https_proxy"
Defaults  env_keep += "HTTP_PROXY"
Defaults  env_keep += "HTTPS_PROXY"
```
so that the sudo can inherit the current user's http proxy settings.